Hi, I'm Dan Mbaga with AWS AI.
Welcome to the Introduction
to Deep Learning Course.
I have been with as for four
years and I'm currently
responsible for
business development
management in machine learning.
As part of AWS AI Team,
have worked with our customers
to build their machine learning
products from conception
to production on AWS.
In this video, you
will learn about
deep-learning or DL and about
the services that AWS offers for
developing deep-learning
based applications.
We'll also discuss
a case study where
one of our customers is
innovating with Deep Learning.
DL is a subset of
machine learning,
which itself is a subset of
Artificial Intelligence.
Scientists started studying
deep-learning in 1950s and
devoted significant resources to
wait for the next 70 years.
The foundation for
the current error
was laid in the 1980s and
the 1990s with research from
Yann LeCun on Convolutional
Neural Networks,
and along short-term memories or
LSTM by Sepp Hochreiter
and Juergen Schmidhuber.
In 1986, the rediscovery of
the backpropagation
training algorithm
marked a significant milestone
in the study of Deep Learning.
The backpropagation algorithm
helps the model learn from
his mistakes by leveraging the
chain rule of derivatives.
But in the decades
that followed called
a neural winter research into
Deep Learning dropped off.
This was partly due to
limitations on data and compute.
The introduction of the Internet,
smartphones, smart TVs,
and the availability of
inexpensive digital cameras,
meant that more and more data was
available.. Computing
power was on the rise.
CPUs were becoming faster,
and GPUs became a
general-purpose computing tool.
Both trends made neural
networks progress.
In 1998, Yann LeCun
publish a paper
on convolutional neural networks
for image recognition tasks.
But it wasn't until 2007
when the research began
to accelerate again.
The advent of GPU and
reduction in training time,
ushered in the mainstay
of Neural Networks
and Deep Learning.
Both data and computing
power made the task
that neural networks tackled
more and more interesting.
With GPS becoming
increasingly popular,
Neural Networks
resurface in 2008.
Deep-learning uses Artificial
Neural Networks to
process and evaluate
its reference data
and come to a conclusion.
Artificial Neural Networks or ANN
are different from traditional
Compute Processing Architectures.
In that, they're designed to
operate more like human brain.
The more flexible and better
at handling
unanticipated anomalies,
and novelty is in a data.
We'll talk more about Artificial
Neural Networks later.
Deep Learning is a subset of
machine learning algorithms.
Deep-learning uses layers of
non-linear Processing Units for
features extraction
and transformation.
Each successive layer uses
the output from the
previous layer as an input.
The algorithms may
be supervised or
unsupervised and applications
include pattern analysis,
which is unsupervised, and
classification which could be
supervised or unsupervised.
These algorithms are also
based on the
unsupervised learning of
multiple levels of features
or representations of the data.
Higher-level features
are derived from
low-level features to form a
hierarchical representation.
Deep learning
algorithms are part of
a broader Machine Learning field
of learning
representations of data,
and they learn multiple levels of
representations
that correspond to
different levels of abstraction.
Where traditional
Machine Learning
focuses on feature engineering,
Deep Learning focuses on
end-to-end learning
based on raw features.
Each layer is responsible for
analyzing additional complex
features in the data.
A Neural network
is a collection of
simple trainable
mathematical unit
that collectively learn
complex functions.
With enough training data,
a Neural Network can perform
a decent job of mapping
input data and features
to output decisions.
It consists of multiple layers.
There is an input layer,
some hidden layers,
and an output layer.
The basic unit of an
Artificial Neural Network is
Artificial Neuron sometimes
also called a node.
Like the biological neurons
for which they are named,
artificial neurons have
several input channels.
A neuron sums these inputs
inside of processing stage,
and produces one output that can
fan out to multiple other
artificial neurons.
In this simplified example,
the input values
are multiplied by
the weight to get
their weighted value.
Then if appropriate,
the node adds
an offset vector to the
sum called the bias,
which adjusts to sum to
generate more
accurate predictions,
based on the success or
failure of the
product predictions.
Once the inputs have been
weighted then sumed,
and the bias is added
if appropriate,
the neuron activates if the
final value produced by
the preceding steps meets or
exceeds the determined
activation threshold.
That's called the
activation step.
It's the final step before
an output is deliver.
The Feedforward Neural Network is
any neural network that doesn't
form a cycle between neurons.
This means data
moves from one input
to output without
looping backward.
This another Neural Network
that does look backwards,
and that's called
Recurrent Neural Network.
The primary value of a
recurrent neural network
comes when processing
sequential information
such as text,
or speech, or handwriting.
Where the ability to
predict the next word or
later is vastly improve if
you're factoring in the words,
or letters that come before it.
Recurrent Neural Networks
became much more popular
after 2007 when Long Short Term
Memory or LSTM approaches
revolutionized speech
recognition programs.
LSTM is now the basis for many of
today's most successful
applications
in the speech recognition domain,
text-to-speech domain,
and handwriting
recognition domain.
Use cases for Deep Learning
span multiple industries.
Let's have a look at each.
You can find text analysis
use cases in a finance,
social, CRM, and insurance
domains to name a few.
It's used to detect
insider training.
Check for regulatory compliance.
Brand affinity.
Sentiment analysis.
Intent Analysis, and more
by essentially analyzing
blobs of text.
Deep Learning is also
used to solve problems
around time-series and
predictive analysis.
It's using datacenters for
Log Analysis and risk
fraud detection,
by the supply chain industry
for resource planning,
and in the IoT field for
predictive analysis
using sensor data.
It's also used in social media,
and e-commerce for building
recommendation engines.
It's using sound analysis too.
You find Deep Learning
being used in
the security domain
for voice recognition,
voice analysis, and in
the CRM domain for
sentiment analysis.
You'll also find deep learning in
both the automotive and
aviation industries,
where it's used for Engine
and instrument floor detection.
You'll even find deep learning
in the finance industry for
credit card fraud detection
among other things.
Finally, it's used
for image analysis.
In the security domain,
Deep Learning is used for
things like facial recognition.
In social media, it's used for
tagging and identifying
people in pictures..
The challenge of course is scale.
In 2012, AlexNet won
the convolutional neural
network ImageNet competition.
It consisted of eight layers,
650,000 interconnected neurons,
and almost 60 million parameters.
Today, the complexity of
Neural Networks has
increased significantly.
With recent networks
such as Resnet 152,
a Deep Residual Neural Network
which has a 152 layers,
and millions more connected
neurons in parameters.
The AWS Platform offers
three advanced Deep Learning
enabled managed API services.
Amazon Lex, Amazon Polly,
and Amazon Rekognition.
Amazon Lex is a
service for building
conversational interfaces
into any application
using voice and text.
It provides that advanced
Deep Learning functionalities
of automatic speech recognition,
for converting
speech-to-text, and natural
language understanding
to recognize
the intent of the input.
That enables you to
build applications with
highly engaging user experiences,
and life-like conversational
interactions.
Amazon Polly turns tags
into lifelike speech.
Allowing you to create
applications that talk,
and build entirely new categories
of speech enabled products.
Amazon Rekognition
makes it easy to
add image analysis to
your applications,
so that your application
can detect objects,
scenes, and faces, and images.
You can also search
and compare faces,
recognize celebrities,
and identify
inappropriate content.
Deep Learning can often be
technically challenging.
Requiring you to understand
the math of the
models themselves,
and the experience in
skating, training,
and inference across large
distributed systems.
As a result, several
Deep Learning frameworks
have emerged,
which allow you to define
models and then
train them at scale.
You can build custom models
using the Amazon
deep-learning AMIs.
Built for Amazon
Linux and Ubuntu.
The AWS Deep Learning AMIs come
pre-configured with
Apache MXnet TensorFlow,
the Microsoft Cognitive
Toolkit Caffe,
Caffe2, theano, torch,
Pytorch and Keras.
The Deep Learning AMIs
enable you to quickly
deploy and run any of
these frameworks at scale.
The Deep Learning AMIs can
help you get started quickly.
They're provisioned with many
deep learning frameworks
including tutorials that
demonstrate proper installation,
configuration, and
model accuracy.
The Deep Learning AMIs
install dependencies,
track library versions, and
validate code compatibility.
With updates to the
AMIs every month,
you always have the
latest versions of
the engines in data
science libraries.
Whether you need Amazon
EC2 GPU or CPU Instances.
There's no additional charge
for the deep learning AMIs.
You only pay for the
AWS resources that you
need to store and run
your applications.
There are two ways to get started
with AWS Deep Learning AMIs;
you can deploy a deep-learning
Compute Instance in one click.
The AWS Deep Learning AMIs can
quickly be launched
from AWS marketplace.
You have the choice of GPUs
for large-scale training,
and CPUs for running
predictions or inferences.
Both of them give you
a stable, secured,
and high-performance
execution environment to run
your applications with
pay-as-you-go pricing model.
The other way to get started with
the Deep Learning AMIs is
to launch an AWS Cloud Formation
Deep Learning template.
To train over multiple instances,
you use the Deep Learning
CloudFormation template
for a simple way to
launch all of your resources
quickly using the
deep learning AMIs.
Now, let's talk about a use case.
C-Span is non-for-profits
surveys focused on
broadcasting and archiving
US government proceedings.
C-span had developed
an automated facial
recognition solution
to help human indexers,
but it will slow.
They could only index half of
the incoming content by speaker
limiting the ability of users
to search archive content.
So what are the solutions
and benefit that they had
using Amazon Rekognition as
a Deep Learning Service?
They implemented
Amazon recognition
to automatically match,
uploaded screenshots
of a collection
of 97,000 known faces.
That enables C-span to
more than double the video index
from $3,500-7,500 per year.
It drove down to labor
required to index an hour of
video content from 60
minutes to 20 minutes.
They deployed it in
less than three weeks,
and index at 97,000
image collection in
less than two hours.
I hope you learned
a little something,
and we'll continue to
explore other courses.
I'm Dan Mbaga with AWS AI,
and thanks for watching.